-> See Oracle Database Application Express User's Guide (ODAEUG).

01. Loading Sample Objects
	-> Downloading OEHR Sample Objects
	  To import the OEHR Sample Objects application, you first need to download it from the
	  Oracle Technology Network (OTN):
	  1. In your Web browser go to:
	  http://www.oracle.com/technology/products/database/application_
	  express/packaged_apps/oehr_sample_objects.zip
	  2. Locate the OEHR Sample Objects application.
	  3. Download the oehr_sample_objects.zip file to your computer.
	  4. Unzip and extract the oehr_sample_objects_installer.sql file

	-> Importing and Installing OEHR Sample Objects
	  To import and install the OEHR Sample Objects application:
	  1. Log in to Oracle Application Express. -> See "Logging In To Oracle Application Express" in (ODAEUG).
	  2. On the Workspace home page, click Application Builder. -> The Application Builder home page appears.
	  3. Click the Import button.
	  4. For Specify File, specify the following:
	    a. Import file - Click Browse and go to the oehr_sample_objects_installer.sql file.
	    b. File Type - Select Application, Page, or Component Export.
	    c. Verify that File Character Set is correct.
	    d. Click Next.
	  
	  Now that you have imported the file, you want to install it.
	  5. To install an imported file, click Next. -> The Install Application Wizard appears.
	  6. In the Install Application Wizard, specify the following:
		a. Parse As Schema - Select a schema.
		b. Build Status - Select Run and Build Application.
		c. Install As Application - Select Auto Assign New Application ID.
		d. Click Install.
	  7. For Supporting Objects, select Yes and click Next.
	  8. Confirm your selections by clicking Install.
	  9. Click the Home breadcrumb link at the top of the page.
		The Application Builder home page appears.

    -> Viewing Database Objects
      To view the objects:
      1. On the Workspace home page, click SQL Workshop.
      2. Click Object Browser.
      3. From the Object Selection list, select Tables.
	  4. In the Object Selection pane, click OEHR_EMPLOYEES from the list.
	  The Detail pane shows details about the table.
	  5. Click the Data tab in the row at the top of the Details pane.
	  The data in the OEHR_EMPLOYEES table appears. Note that other tabs show additional details about the object you select.
	  6. To search for an object name, enter a case insensitive term in the Search field.
	  7. To view all objects, leave the Search field blank.

	-> About Application Authentication
	  As you create new pages, you can view them by running the page individually or by running an entire application. When you run a page or application, the Application Express engine dynamically renders it into viewable HTML based on data stored in the database.
	  By default, all the applications you create in these tutorials use Application Express Authentication. Application Express Authentication is a built-in authentication scheme that uses the same internal user accounts you use to log in to a workspace.
	  The first time you run a page in an application, you are prompted to enter a user name and password. To continue, simply enter your workspace user name and password and then click Login. When you create your own applications, you can choose from a number of preconfigured authentication schemes or build your own.
	    -> See "Establishing User Identity Through Authentication" in (ODAEUG).


02. How to Create a Tabular Form
  A tabular form enables users to update multiple rows in a table at once from a single page. You can use the Tabular Form Wizard to create a tabular form that contains a built-in multiple row update process. This built-in process performs optimistic locking behind the scenes to maintain the data integrity.

  This tutorial explains how to create a tabular form within a new application and then how to change one of the updatable columns from a text field to a select list.

    -> Creating an Application
      To create an application using the Create Application Wizard:
	  1. On the Workspace home page, click the Application Builder icon.
	  The Application Builder home page appears.
	  2. Click Create.
	  3. Select Create Application and click Next.
	  4. For Name:
	    a. Name - Enter Tabular Form.
	    b. Application - Accept the default.
	    c. Create Application - Select From scratch.
	    d. Schema - Select the schema where you installed the OEHR sample objects.
	    e. Click Next.
	  Next, you need to add a page. You have the option of adding a blank page, a
	  report, a form, a tabular form, or a report and form. For this exercise, you
	  create an application containing a blank page. Then, you create a tabular form.
	  5. Add a blank page:
	    a. Under Select Page Type, select Blank and click Add Page
	    The new page appears in the list at the top of the page.
	    b. Click Next.
	  6. For Tabs, accept the default, One Level of Tabs, and click Next.
	  7. For Copy Shared Components from Another Application, accept the default, No, and click Next.
	  8. For Attributes, accept the defaults for Authentication Scheme, Language, and User Language Preference Derived From and click Next.
	  9. For User Interface, select Theme 2 and click Next.
	  A theme is collection of templates that define the layout and style of an application. You can change a theme at any time.
	  10. Review your selections and click Create.
	  The Application home page appears.
	    -> See "Managing Themes" in (ODAEUG).

	-> Creating a Tabular Form Using a Wizard
	  The Tabular Form Wizard creates a form to perform update, insert, and delete operations on multiple rows in a database table.

	  To create a tabular form using the Tabular Form Wizard:
	    1. On the Application home page, click Create Page.
	    2. For the page type, select Form and click Next.
	    3. Select Tabular Form and click Next.
	    4. For Table/View Owner:
	      a. Table/View Owner - Accept the default.
	      b. Allowed Operations - Accept the default, Update, Insert, and Delete.
	      c. Click Next.
	    5. For Table/View Name, select OEHR_EMPLOYEES and click Next.
		6. For Displayed Columns:
		  a. For Select Columns, press Ctrl and select the following columns:
		  FIRST_NAME, LAST_NAME, HIRE_DATE, SALARY, DEPARTMENT_ID
		  b. Click Next.
		7. For Primary Key, accept the default, EMPLOYEE_ID (Number) and click Next.
		8. For Source Type, accept the default, Existing trigger, and click Next.
		9. For Updatable Columns, select all columns and click Next.
		10. For Page and Region Attributes:
		  a. Page - Accept the default.
		  b. Page Name - Enter Tabular Form.
		  c. Region Title - Accept the default, Tabular Form.
		  d. Region Template and Report Template - Accept the defaults.
		  e. Breadcrumb - Accept the default.
		  f. Click Next.
		11. For Tab, accept the default, Do not use tabs, and click Next.
		12. For Button Labels, specify the following:
		  a. Submit button - Enter Apply Changes.
		  b. Cancel, Delete, and Add Row buttons - Accept the default label text.
		  c. Click Next.
		13. For Branching, accept the defaults and click Next.
		Branching tells the Web browser what page to display when the current page is submitted for processing. In this case, you want the user to remain on the current page.
		14. Confirm your selections and click Finish.
		Next, run the page to view your new form.

    -> Changing an Updatable Column to a Select List
      When the Tabular Form Wizard creates a tabular form, updatable columns are displayed, by default, as text fields. In the next exercise, you change the default display of the Department Id column to a select list.
      -> See "Creating Lists of Values" in (ODAEUG).

        + Create a Named List of Values
          To create a named LOV for the Department Id:
		  1. Click Edit Page 2 on the Developer toolbar
		  2. Under List of Values, click the Create icon.
		  The Create List of Values Wizard appears.
		  3. For Source, select From Scratch and click Next.
		  4. For Name and Type:
		    a. Name - Enter DEPTID.
		    b. Type - Select Dynamic.
		    c. Click Next.
		  5. For Query or Static Values, replace the existing text with this:
		    SELECT DISTINCT department_id a, department_id b FROM oehr_employees
		  6. Click Create List of Values.
		  The Page Definition for page 2 appears. Note that the LOV does not yet appear on
		  the Page Definitions.

		+ Edit the Column to Display as a Select List
